---
title: FrameBook
source: hacker_news
url: https://fb.edoo.gg
points: 522
---

Title: FrameBook
Points: 522, Author: todsacerdoti, Comments: 88

What Not To Write On Your Security Clearance Form
The "previous account" referred to in RISKS-6.51
Reading a book got me into early trouble--I had an FBI record
by age twelve. This bizarre incident caused a problem much later
when I needed a security clearance. I learned that I could obtain
one only by concealing my sordid past.
A friend named Bob and I read the book ``Secret and Urgent,'' by
Fletcher Pratt [Blue Ribbon Books; Garden City, NY; 1942] which was
an early popular account of codes and ciphers. Pratt showed how to
use letter frequencies to break ciphers and reported that the most
frequently occurring letters in typical English text are
e-t-a-o-n-r-i, in that order. (The letter frequency order of the
story you are now reading is e-t-a-i-o-n-r. The higher frequency
of ``i'' probably reflects the fact that _I_ use the first person
singular a lot.) Pratt's book also treated more advanced
Bob and I decided that we needed to have a secure way to
communicate with each other, so we put together a rather elaborate
jargon code based on the principles described in the book. I don't
remember exactly why we thought we needed it--we spent much of
our time outside of school together, so there was ample time to
talk privately. Still, you never could tell when you might need to
We made two copies of the code key (a description of how to encrypt
and decrypt our messages) in the form of a single typewritten
sheet. We each took a copy and carried it on our persons at all
times when we were wearing clothes.
I actually didn't wear clothes much. I spent nearly all my time
outside school wearing just a baggy pair of maroon swimming trunks.
That wasn't considered too weird in San Diego.
I had recently been given glasses to wear but generally kept them
in a hard case in the pocket of the trousers that I wore to school.
I figured that this was a good place to hide my copy of the code
key, so I carefully folded it to one-eighth of its original size
and stuck it at the bottom of the case, under my glasses.
Every chance I got, I went body surfing at Old Mission Beach. I
usually went by streetcar and, since I had to transfer Downtown, I
wore clothes. Unfortunately, while I was riding the trolley home
from the beach one Saturday, the case carrying my glasses slipped
out of my pocket unnoticed. I reported the loss to my mother that
night. She chastised me and later called the streetcar company.
They said that the glasses hadn't been turned in.
After a few weeks of waiting in vain for the glasses to turn up, we
began to lose hope. My mother didn't rush getting replacement
glasses in view of the fact that I hadn't worn them much and they
cost about $8, a large sum at that time. (To me, $8 represented 40
round trips to the beach by streetcar, or 80 admission fees to the
Unknown to us, the case had been found by a patriotic citizen who
opened it, discovered the code key, recognized that it must belong
to a Japanese spy and turned it over to the FBI This was in
1943, just 
