---
title: Plasma Bigscreen – 10-foot interface for KDE plasma
source: hacker_news
url: https://plasma-bigscreen.org
points: 673
---

Title: Plasma Bigscreen – 10-foot interface for KDE plasma
Points: 673, Author: PaulHoule, Comments: 225

This post is an expanded version of a presentation I gave at the 2025
WebAssembly has come a long way since its
in 2017. The first version of WebAssembly was already a great fit for low-level languages like C and C++, and immediately enabled many new kinds of applications to efficiently target the web.
Since then, the WebAssembly CG has dramatically expanded the core capabilities of the language, adding
, alongside many smaller improvements such as
These additions have allowed many more languages to efficiently target WebAssembly. There’s still more important work to do, like
, but WebAssembly has narrowed the gap with native in many ways.
Yet, it still feels like something is missing that’s holding WebAssembly back from wider adoption on the Web.
There are multiple reasons for this, but the core issue is that
WebAssembly is a second-class language on the web
. For all of the new language features, WebAssembly is still not integrated with the web platform as tightly as it should be.
This leads to a poor developer experience, which pushes developers to only use WebAssembly when they absolutely need it. Oftentimes JavaScript is simpler and “good enough”. This means its users tend to be large companies with enough resources to justify the investment, which then limits the benefits of WebAssembly to only a small subset of the larger Web community.
Solving this issue is hard, and the CG has been focused on extending the WebAssembly language. Now that the language has matured significantly, it’s time to take a closer look at this. We’ll go deep into the problem, before talking about how
What makes WebAssembly second-class?
At a very high level, the scripting part of the web platform is layered like this:
WebAssembly can directly interact with JavaScript, which can directly interact with the web platform. WebAssembly can access the web platform, but only by using the special capabilities of JavaScript. JavaScript is a first-class language on the web, and WebAssembly is not.
This wasn’t an intentional or malicious design decision; JavaScript is the original scripting language of the Web and co-evolved with the platform. Nonetheless, this design significantly impacts users of WebAssembly.
What are these special capabilities of JavaScript? For today’s discussion, there are two major ones:
WebAssembly code is unnecessarily cumbersome to load. Loading JavaScript code is as simple as just putting it in a script tag:
<script src="script.js"></script>
WebAssembly is not supported in script tags today, so developers need to use the
to manually load and instantiate code.
let bytecode = fetch(import.meta.resolve('./module.wasm'));
await WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming(bytecode, imports);
The exact sequence of API calls to use is arcane, and there are multiple ways to perform this process, each of which has different tradeoffs that are not clear to most developers. This process generally just needs to be memorized or generated by a tool for you.
proposal, which is
